Support for another round comes from August a new kind of consulting company that helps organizations realize their
potential to make a meaningful dent in the world interested in doing this work. Japp the middle
of the day at W.W.W. dot www dot call slash another round.
That's a huge e that see old slash another round.
Hi everyone I'm having and Tracy and welcome to another room with Heaven and Tracy.
Yeah
well
I don't call it
well I have no idea what that was well into the show feudalism it
was welcome.
So
we had something scheduled to run today. But over the weekend we got an email that changed the course
of events we got an email from friend of the show Melissa Harris Perry formerly of the Melissa
Harris Perry show on M.S.N. B.C. and she said that he was ready to
talk about her split from him as N.B.C. which is
very pretty heated and very public and I
was the we were like Yeah when I mean like no we were like yeah because it
was a metal club special ed it's like oh if I see you broke my
will I was an incredible detailing of how we
felt. Yeah. So that's what's up today
and you might remember that we interviewed her in an earlier episode we should definitely check that
out but we don't try to get every every and every step
of the T.V.
Today we're so without further
ado we have a very happy to welcome to the show Welcome back to shell Melissa Harris Perry
She is currently a professor at Wake Forest University where she runs
an adjudicator center and we are so honored that you are here with us today. Thanks for having me back
has gone well. I mean it wasn't that long after being with you all that it all ended
so I'm assuming it was you
so. Yeah you
could hear. I feel
like we need to do some background for people who might not know. All that's been happening. You wrote
a letter to your staff at nerd land which front of the show Jameel Smith published in medium where you
say that quote here is the reality. Our show is taken without comment or discussion or notice in the midst
of an election season for the people who have not been following the nitty gritty of this.
Can you give us your general timeline of events right so let me back up a little
bit too before actually before we got to January of two thousand and
sixteen so M.F. and B.C. had undergone some programming changes
and we knew we were going into an election year and we wondered
what image the show's role was going to be and so I had been trying to have some conversations with the
leadership
there and look on a real like basic level. I don't live in New York. I live in North
Carolina and I fly up to New York on the weekends in order to do the shit I have been doing that for
four years. And so I have an apartment here and so like I don't really know how to face other than at the
most basic level.
I want to know whether or not I should renew the lease on my apartment and my thing was if you think
that for any reason the show is not going to make it the whole year.
Let me know I'll stay in hotels when I come because I don't want to be on the hook for an
apartment for the whole year and I really just can't get an answer from
anybody and eventually right as we got almost to the very start
of the New
Year got an answer that said no no we you know we expect that image the show is going
to run the length of the contract which wasn't quite the whole year but would have been pretty
close to the also so who told us how long would it have been that was
my executive producer at the time who apparently believe that he had had
conversations with people the top no one thing it directly to me and that would run to the end of
October but it seems we got to January started seeing
some changes and the big changes I think any viewer could have seen but it might have been a
little bit harder you might have been looking for it there are things. We call tagging a branding.
So the way that you know or that you knew at every point before that you were watching Melissa Harris Perry
show is that it was particular colors. So is a particular blue and brown
and it said Melissa Harris Perry on what we call the banners right so kind of along the top in the bottom.
We had a soundtrack like a particular music that we would come into and then if we
had like graphics or we had video they were all in what we would call our look right so that
name color and those sounds and all of
that and if you go back and watch the shows in twenty sixteen starting in about the second week of
January that all went away and nobody told us anything it just
went so they were still doing the show and just the graphics were different. That's right and initially we
thought that this was because of the Iowa caucuses and New
Hampshire
primaries and so I started asking questions about when an H.P. branding was going to
come back and I asked that question because we went
missing and this is a bit of insider politics but we went missing from a space we
call our dome think of it as like a card catalog. So basically any time you want to go back
and find something that you did on T.V. or that
another hosted on T.V. you can go and look in the card catalog the belongs
to the
network by the date the time in the show right. You can say oh some listeners Kerry
did in you know January of two thousand and fourteen and you can go
and find that list has very disappeared from our
home starting in twenty six team we were just place for politics ten A.M. to noon.
Did these changes happen with any other sales it was a just you are now basically with most of the
show like with the branding and
everything all the weekend hours and all of the dayside So I
want to really clear wasn't it was personal in a lot of ways a very impersonal. But
we disappeared we were gone and so it was real clear to me at that
point that we actually did not have a show I was still being allowed.
Host
initially but the show was gone and then the next thing that happened
was that I was no longer allowed to
host so first the show last but I was still hosting the second thing that
happened was there was some messing around editorial content and then the third thing that happened
was that I
was no longer put on the schedule to host. What do you mean by messing around
with editorial content. So we had always been given a kind of
wonderful level of editorial freedom.
You know there's rules about what you can and can't say on T.V. and there's guidance at any point you know these are the
big stories of the week we expect you to touch on them in some
way but we also had always had things that we just kind
of did we talk about poverty. We talked about sexuality we talked about sexual assault
on campus we talked about race we talk about a lot of pop culture those are things that
we felt like made our show the sink that was what made us the show and we begin
to be
told not to book guests on those topics not to talk about those topics and
to talk exclusively
about the election. The easiest example is
what happened on the what ended up being the very last show. That I hosted which
was rule Sunday. Every year that I had a show Super Bowl Sunday
we always had an early and Super Bowl Sunday. In fact
in most of those years I wore. Shoulder pads
and another land Jersey and we talked a lot
about the Super Bowl kind of the way nerd land does it. So yeah we did a little bit of sports but
we did a lot of Race and Sports gender in sports you know. And see the play card
tell leading into the N.F.L. And you know that's kind of the way we we do things initially we're told
no more than an
hour that we were told no more than half an hour and then we were told kill the Super Bowl.
And I said. Can the Super Bowl and Super Bowl Sunday. Besides the fact that I
thought that was actually. Like a bad ratings game. I mean I don't even really look at the ratings but I. I happen to know that
it always performed well for
us but then the other thing that happened that night of course everybody knows was Saturday
night formation
dropped and it's a holiday sidebar. Most are very
wearing the best T. and it was a credible teaser as beyond say surf team. It's
a great in on that it's new to feel that it's all
happening at every August.
It dropped and it was about everything from race and black lives matter and New Orleans all things that have
been central topics. To image the show so I mean I think I put up
a joke on Twitter that night and I was like oh we're trashing the
whole show you know we're starting over every I was joking we were dressing the whole show but obviously
we started rewriting scripts
and one of the like well it's called third floor
people came in and said no and if they're full of arsenic like Ira.
Yeah yeah he said unless you can make this somehow
about the G.O.P. primary we're not going to have a conversation about B. and C. information
tomorrow and I said yes we are we've been talking about black lives matter we've been
talking about post Katrina New Orleans. We've been talking
frankly about beyond say we do it well it is critical to who we are and
my God beyond to just drop this on a Saturday
night we have a show tomorrow morning. Nobody else will have touched this. This is like a guy
like this is like a a gift from the T.V. god why did you not let us do this
of course we're going to do this
and was told no no no for an hour to the point where I finally
said you know what cool. It seems to me that what you want is
not my show. If you want me to go on television act like
this isn't happening. You must want to anchor and I'm not an anchor. So I tell you what
I'm going to I'm just going pack what ya'll good anchor will talk and I put my stuff in
my bag and I started walk
out somebody made a call to a higher higher up who at the time was on the ground in New Hampshire.
And that person sort of said OK lungs do more than two segments they can do it.
And it roasted again. What was the reason that the third floor guy gave you for not wanting you to do
the ONS I coverage. Also who was it. Oh Who was it who told us no. His name is
Chris Pena amount of it means anything to anybody he's like his job is he oversees
weekend coverage.
I just from the cable news world of decision making I'd like it so I can read
it it is a collective effort to make T.V. and I sometimes have kind of wild and
crazy ideas and so them. Just like a good idea and that's fun. Like I want to be really
clear it should be collaborative it should be collective and you should check each other and it should just be groupthink and sometimes
we make mistakes because we didn't write it so that's
OK but that's different then something that was clearly in our wheel house being told simply
being told by
a higher up not to do is that like their new tagline the place for politics what is this
direction they're going. So I can't tell you the answer to that and I can't tell you that it's wrong.
It might be great so I just want to be really clear about this too because I think this got a little lost in
all the
everything people who are at the top of
the organization that is governed by Harkey have a right to change the
direction of the organization and so
when Andy Lack came to Miss N.B.C. and made a decision to take M S N B C In a new
direction and that direction was place for politics and it did not have room for beyond
say and Dave Zirin the conversation
on the Super Bowl. That is one hundred
percent
fine but it also needs to be made
explicit not only to me as a host. But to my team and to
my
viewers and so what happened was that conversation happened
internally we went on we did our show and then I was not invited back
to host and then for two weeks.
Not only during my regular time slot but at no point during
those week. X.. So for example we went straight from there to New Hampshire right from New Hampshire
primary happens on a Tuesday. I would normally have been on air on a Tuesday granite.
But every host and. Correspondent and people who don't even
have shows were in fact on the network on Tuesday. I was standing
in the room on Tuesday while television was being
made and I was not invited on air.
So no today is not my normal time slot but this keeps
getting described as like a couple weeks were preempted What is she so dramatic about the fact she
not what was happening. I was clearly one hundred percent being
told You are not invited to be part of political
coverage which again one hundred percent fine
but rather than simply saying that there was nothing I was
asking questions I was sending e-mails I was telling people I literally one point was standing next to a
vet Miley who was my vice pres of standing next to
her and I said hey. Am I going to ever get on the air as you
have and kind of shrug your shoulders for the next two weeks go by I'm not making
I probably just like what how did they like tell you to not come back to the show
after you did the beyond saving the Bianchi segment so the next week
I'm told that there's no my image the show is a place for politics and
those hours and I just said like your show is not on the that's right they had an enormous it's place for politics
all those hours be hosted by someone else. Then the next
week it was play for politics there was my someone else. There's also at some point in which one of those two weeks.
There was a sickly a funeral but they had be clear I had already been told.
I was not to be there was going to be part of those hours I was an be part of any of the
daytime evening. None of those hours at any
point then I get an e-mail from Dylan Byers at
C.N.N. So F. why I was made a little bit of a hard ass about
it so my response to. People behaving badly was to go on my
Twitter and take M S N B C hose off my
bio been just a little like about it like I did. Well
saying I love her nothing else I don't get why. Yeah I just was I was like really young and put
me on air. I'm to take
off now. There's apparently like a little
algorithm and people can see when you change it for them but I had maybe not known
a lot of those moments like Go on you I had a fight like
it navigated right. We see you know the man. Yeah right.
I didn't quite what. Whatever. Yeah so I mean I just I just figure when different doesn't
make will. So do it by its doing his job his job is to report on
the media and apparently he got to like him H.B.O. changed
her bio. So he's sent an email talking about I see you have really been on
the
T.V. and you know him as N.B.C. host is gone from your bio I guess you're
moving on and so my response was just. There the face being made in the studio that
you can't see. Right so I said nothing. So I said nothing for
like a day and a half and then I get another e-mail from Dylan says Hey
I just talked to him I said we see this that everything is fine that he give
you a quote or just a general. No you just said they said everything is fine so I still just
said nothing felt like well that's interesting because they will answer my emails. All right where
they have to
deliver three or four days later
the grid for the weekend comes
out and my name is on it so after Dylan as
my name so I thought well this is Sting. Obviously my name in the name of the
show are the same thing. All right so I asked for clarification. I called my executive producer and
I
said My name is on the grid. Are we doing Melissa Harris Perry
show or am I just entering tend to new.
And he said you're just anchoring to new I said
How long is are going to be no Melissa Harris Perry show. Are we going to be able to come back
after Super Tuesday right because that was it could be another couple weeks and I was told at
that point for the forseeable future. There's no most areas Barry's show.
You'll be put in. As a host when needed. And
again that is coming from my E.P. at that
point still have her had a conversation with. That was when
I sent the message to my team because that's what my team was excited basing my name on
the lead singer how Thank God for. Were gone bad here we go.
Yeah let's let's talk about like your
team through all this and their reaction sell like what was like the general conversation going on
within your team when like your sanity is being taken away and everybody started out as like OK
we haven't been on this show and
allow this is the one thing I cannot talk about because they're all still inside. So
everyone on the team still works there
and.
They all got bills to pay. Yeah except for my E.P. who I feel
like is a grown ass man so he will have to give loans one way or another I don't
want to say anything about what any other team member said did or otherwise. Yeah. What I can say is I
don't believe that that letter leaked from any member of my
team. I sent that letter to my team but I also copied it to Yvette Miley and
to Phil Griffin. Because it because. M S N B C has been a
very leaky place and because it's been a place where people have not been very loyal.
I don't want to send that letter to my team and not have our bosses see it. I don't want people to
feel like oh my god this letter exists and our bosses haven't seen
it somebody my printed out left a
bio printer right
or or Phil Griffin got a call that me I as he clearly did on Friday
so what do you mean on Friday of
this week. Phil Griffin clearly. Called media told them that I had a job
with that I had signed a deal with fusion. But what does he stand to gain
from doing that I think the goal is to make it look like I wanted
to sever my relationship with M S N B C In order to potentially pursue not
new opportunities and so if I had signed a deal within two
weeks. It would look like I had purposely wanted to sever my relationship and I absolutely did
not let me see South are in it with
him the person who wrote
the piece is a guy who still has lunch with
Ana basically on a weekly basis and the story was quite wrong.
Look I think fusion is kind of interesting place.
It's its quarterly it's got its problems and challenges there's no doubt about it but I actually think it's kind of.
I think it's kind of a fun place. And I would hate it if I did have that offer
from fusion and other conversations with lots of different people
about lots of different things but the idea that I was anywhere close to signing
is like is so bizarre really overstated So we're
way off base and then when I took to
Twitter and I said basically L.O.L. media hype on this they came
back and said oh no
we've confirmed that it was former members of M H T's team.
So they doubled down once they said that once I knew that it hadn't come from fusion.
But instead had come from inside M S N B C that I knew immediately
what happened right so I know exactly what the track of that conversation was I
know how it got wrong. I know how it went from like I've had initial conversation that
I'm excited about
to imageries about to sign a deal or as they initially reported it already had signed a deal and was
about to launch a show L.O.L. As like wow media. Could you be more wrong
but their their willingness to double down and be so certain about it has to do with their sense
of assurance about what that leak was in that
film so I don't really know. Where the an initial letter leap
from what I do know is that once it did once some parts of it were
in the New York Times I wanted all of it out and so that's when I sent it
to Jamil.
You know who was the original nerd of nerd land. I sent it to him and I said hey
there are parts of this in The New York Times they're probably pretty inflammatory You know people going to read it
and think that I was saying one kind of thing. I just want people to be able to read the whole thing
I'm going to hand it to you because I trust you to put it in wherever you think the right places and he put it I mean
the one thing that I now about the ng a black
person working in white
media is that once in Issue bubbles to the surface
are isolated otherwise especially if it's very silly to that little bitty bit that
where hearing about once it hit the headlines is like the tip of the iceberg of what else is
usually going on behind us and are.
Is this kind of the straw that broke the camel's back and wet. What is what has it been like to
work in math and easy life from day
one to the last day like what what is it like to work there as a as
a person of color.
You know funny. It is not the worst place I have worked. It just is not by any stretch of the imagination.
I have to tell you just when I
wrote that e-mail to my team. It was more than anything an apology
to them that we were looking at another week two weeks three weeks
months six
months of them having to write T.V. that I know they hate to write.
Most of the members of my team came with real commitments to the
political social intellectual questions we were interested in working
on and so me making a decision
not to sit in that weekend with me saying
Look in part because I believe that even if I came back we're still going to be doing.
Donald Trump up badly it would be good and I just I one girl say those words out of my
face it was we weren't like. The straw that broke the camel's back my when my
Al was much more like
look I'm not going to do that right. So and he wants me to do
this I'm going to do that for you you'll have to decide you know let me do the thing I want to
do or but I want done and
I'm I really want to go through this election and yeah there
were things about working to dimiss sure. But again it's actually not the worst place that
I've worked part of it is I come in on Friday night and I'm there Saturday and
Sunday and so and I mostly just live a nerd land with a team full of
mostly lovely young black and brown women who are
mostly feminist
and like identified all the questions that we're concerned with and so my world is
pretty
great
whenever things went bad and I became the subject of public
controversy. M.S. never. As a company.
No one time they did. Very early on were supportive and helpful. Every time after
that that there was any kind of controversy. On the show it was completely
clear that the priority was to
protect and medicine. And that's his reputation. There was never much of any concern
about the personal
costs emotionally
fiscally
sometimes like literally in terms of safety. So to
accept that there was a straw that broke the cam on this
one you know there was a very scary encounter in Iowa. So what happened. So I was
in Iowa for the caucuses. And in part because M S N B C.
Wouldn't give me a press pass while we were there. I wasn't behind the M S N B
C security barriers. I was just sitting out in the hotel lobby to give you a press pass.
No ma'am.
So I was there. And I was covering the caucuses with my twenty two kids from the wake the vote program right.
So I'm traveling these twenty two kids are Democrats or Republicans are liberal conservative. I found them to work
for candidates across idiology So you draw from a hat. So you can be a
liberal working
for Trump or you know conservative work for Hillary on any given weekend right so we
were there and I was waiting for them to come
back from their caucuses. So we were sitting in the lobby and I was in there with a couple of
my other staff members and a man approached me. I've been meeting people all day
as you do at the caucuses. He came up to me and started talking and at first I thought
that we may be met before but then he became
aggressive and then he said something that I wasn't quite sure if I was meant to take it as a
threat or not. When he started speaking more loudly and he said I want you to
understand why I'm doing this.
I didn't know what he meant by this like what was the this that was that was about and
I just froze.
I wrote I wrote about this because we will have to write blogs after after all of our
trips but then I heard the student starting to come back I kind of
clicked back
in I jumped up. I kind of moved put space between me and him one of my
staff members came and put herself between me and him we did some yelling he
went out the hotel lobby and was gone but it
was scary. It was scary it was upsetting the
biggest issue is I was then
going to New Hampshire the next weekend and I still had these twenty two kids with me and so then I wrote about
the story. Nena little mini viral a lot of people have very strong reactions to
it now imagine you're a parent and you know that your kid is traveling
with him H.P. and you've just read this story. Think of how you might
feel right presumably you might go. Well what are you going to make sure things
are better the next time. Right. So just after
I wake forest immediately jumps to a variety of things they come they do a training with the
kids they come over to my office space there they put some card readers on it they
said I mean they're like OK hey we have a security breach here let's let's address
whatever it might be let's just start thinking strategically about
it
the response from M S N B C was if you're not traveling with us
if we haven't asked you to come as an anchor then your
security is
not our problem.
Wow And so I said Well. I've got twenty two kids traveling with me
I want to watch the returns in a place I know I can just say to their parents. We're going
to be safe and they said no absolutely not can't
have all them damn kids up
here you have to go find another place to be.
So we watched it in a bar across the street.
It's not their responsibility. It's not their job but really nobody wants to harm me because I'm a
college professor the reason somebody wanted to harm me the reason that people send hate mail to me
the reason that I don't really my Twitter at replies for four
years is because I work for M S N B C. You know the reason my kid puts up with
stuff at school the reason my husband deals with mean that actually is because of ya'll And
so I'm just asking on this one day. Could I be able to tell the parents of
my kids that I know for certain that will be behind the security
perimeter because you know I've worked here for
hears and they their response is No
and I have to say that that level of
contempt from them towards me which I don't particularly think is racial I just literally think
they just simply did not
care was extremely painful and very hard to
take I didn't stop off and quit. I didn't it was like the straw that broke the
camel's back in that sense but it certainly was very revealing that I was in a I was working for.
People
who truly did not care about me. Do you feel like
im is N.B.C.'s tendency to not be so supportive
of
its host and anchors when legs magickal is down is like par for the course or do you
feel like it was like because it was you they wouldn't come in like surround you are for the course nine
hundred ten par for the
course it does not feel personal my experience of this is not being targeted I don't feel
I mean all of the targeting now that's what I'm talking right. And so were it will be
personal now but I'm inviting that
right that that's that's my my fault because I invited it by saying I'm going to
speak our colleague Joel Anderson tweeted something
that really resonated with me at this time he said we all know we're expendable but if most of
Harry's Perry's expendable then we're really all expendable. I think it's very sweet of Joel
say I didn't know that anybody thought that way about the show.
Quite that fully until this happened. So I thought what we were doing in their land
mattered but
I also recognize that ego is a real thing and so maybe you can think you're doing some real
special and actually you know. Did you like doing whatever is actually known
particularly notice that if it left. I thought we were doing
mattered and like to have people really articulate it.
Oh wow that has
been you know I don't go through it again I mean I would want to but I don't most go through it again
just because to have people articulate what we were doing
mattered to me I wish somehow could've been different than this I wish that
M.S.'s response had been to get that email and be like
Oh that is why you should do a Ph D. in
political fire. It is totally ridiculous is that we were all what
about then having our land back girl like you
know I don't know that's you know in my magical thinking dreams what happens is Phil gets that email from
me on that Monday or Tuesday
and is like oh yeah that's right. When you and I met you were tenured professor
Princeton
and of course you can speak on the election and we will be
happy to welcome you and the nerds back to ten to noon. Here's your
lovely field Lucette back here we go and it would have been a little blip.
That happened and you know
Instead they severed ties and we went forward.
It seems like a lot is coming up for you right now. Yeah and I don't know how to
ask it feels like you're holding back a little what's
like what's weighing on your spirit. Oh me that fellow looks like.
I knew would always be over in
fact my team used to hate it because I've always that it's my side as well.
You know my real job is being a college professor for my team used to hate
that because it's their real
job and they gave silo much to it like I know
most people have no idea how T.V. is made but we're talking about people who came in
at ten A.M.
on Wednesday mornings is when we start are making our shows and we would work
from ten A.M. on Wednesday mornings and they would be there sometimes till eight on Wednesday night and then back
again ten o'clock Thursday until it got Thursday night and
the Friday sometimes one of our producers in particular should be there.
If their midnight on a Friday night been together and then again on Saturday night and by the time we
would leave on Sunday it was kind of a joke that we had because everybody would always make plans on
Sunday like brunch plan. Nobody
could while I just did everyone was just dead on Sundays because
we would just give it all and we were not perfect and I could barely pronounce half
the names of my guests and sometimes we did weird segments that fell flat
and but God people worked so hard for
it and I just thought I thought we had one more year.
So a new would be over a new it wasn't everything a new T.V. was
always limited but I thought we had one more year about we make it to the election.
We have to guess we still really wanted to get on there was unfinished business
and it was just over like. Boom.
Because your team helmet throughout is the Phantom to be supportive of the Union decision are they upset with you.
Things don't produce all of that. Yeah I mean probably all of that people are
human and some people probably
pay some people are probably just like why couldn't you
just walk in just do your job and do whatever was necessary and hold on because you
know some people are extremely patient like you know on a team of told
people lots of different personalities. Some of my team members are
like job which is like patient and just calm and quiet go
wait and probably would've just held out to see if by
June we got tired of play for politics and brought back the show
and figured you know what's the harm in a
little yuck it up while I was really now instead
of you know I said just not the chick i am i just can't
I'm you know I'm old I'm forty two I'm old as compared to them and so for
me I just don't make apologies for who I am in my twenty's actually a might of
either apologize for being fast make my decision hormone to felt really
bad about it in some way but like the chick I am.
I've always been real clear at this point about what my priorities are I try to
be raw honest with them about what my priorities were and that's what that's what that letter was that my letter was
me
trying to say I'm so sorry all I know that and know not everybody is going to
be down with
this but this is why. I was just trying to communicate to them this. This is why
even though my name's on the list I'm not going be on air this weekend. So I'm still kind of town understand what's happening at
Amazon B.C.. Right now they're
responding to the response. To us being off air. I
was somebody named
Gil
tell me everything that will get the black
It
should you
like. So
much so happy and I know what's
happening is so many of my like former knurling guess you know
thirty million like. Oh you know yo I haven't gotten a call since like you
know November isn't my twenty fifteenth whenever I'm all of a sudden I'm
getting calls and you know is it OK with you my gosh it's OK if you go on please go
on reaching back out to your guest to book them again and his thing and just a little
blow that he's acquired. Oh yeah as a whole bunch of things happen so we trended that
night for like six hours or something. And then Congressman Gutierrez
is got on the House floor with a little
sign this A has taken this in D.C. so white and
black terrorist act.
So appreciative and I think he may
be a little bit hair reminded them that when Comcast acquired N.B.C.
Universal that part of that deal which was approved by
Congress included a memorandum of understanding about diversity.
So the disappearance of an H.P. show and
of do not bring back Alex Wagner and with a Diaz Balart not being on
air might represent a violation of the Comcast Universal deal.
So right now and with N.B.C. is not looking to have bed and
I'd bet that you're going to see more commentators and
guess maybe even hosts maybe even a weekend show
with people of color. Back to pick it up back up what you do
know and so part of this is that M S N B C is kind
of they treat everyone the same with the same level of
distance or what were you saying about treat many people that way and then there are a
few special people. OK yes but but I would say many people are treated
that way and that it is not exclusively a question of hosts of color. OK
so that's what I'm trying to isolate is the part because in your letter you said I'm not a token ma'am your
little brown bubble head. That's very rich. Well that's because I'm black.
I think the outcry that they were concerned about was a racialized one and I think this is
the thing that is irritating to me consistently about him is his response to
this when they keep saying we know everything was fine.
I think it's both true and not true.
I don't think Imus N.B.C. had any intention of firing
me and I think it's pretty clear that if I had been willing to be an interchangeable
anchor willing to go on at any given hour and talk about whatever they wanted that I
could have kept my
job
I was not willing to do that so when I talk about being a little brown bottle head that's what that role
is I am brown and have a big head. So that's why
that's what that is when I'm talking about being a mammy that's a very specific thing that I'm talking
about for me want to mammy is what historically a mammy is conceived to
be the mammy is the worker in the household who cares more about the
master's family that about her own home. She's want to leave her family
behind in order to make sure that his family is dealt with that
his wife and kids and household are clean and in perfect order
that all things are right there and and is not worried about her
own what I understood in the
Lagan Phil Griffin in the leadership at M S N B C to be asking me
to do
was to appear on air. In my
time slot and therefore confuse nerd land watchers.
So they thought that we still had a show even though I could no
longer bring them the content which we have seen in their response to
our cancellation they were telling me was
important I don't think I and what people thought was so
important I think you know most local anchors
are pretty brown girls.
What I understand people to be saying was important about him each piece show was what we were
doing and what I was being told to do was to leave my family behind
to leave him H.-P. show to leave nerd land and to appear on
air in order to make any LAX house look an order. That
I was not willing to do and I'm still not willing to do it
now was I willing to be on any LAX network in order.
With my show you even if it had been a bit of an island. Yep because I don't have to
control everybody's everything. If I can just if I had my space we were going to do it.
But that space had been gone it was taken and he was an offer no one was offering that bag.
So the argument here is one we keep talking past each other where they keep saying everything was fine.
No I wasn't asking for my job I wasn't asking for can I be here. I
was asking for your LAN and
that was something that was clearly not on the table they weren't letting us have it. Do you see
a future for yourself in cable news or a future for
cable news. Seriously.
I feel like I'm in the middle of a really painful divorce and you're asking me if I'm going to get married
again I don't think
so you know cable news will go on for a while there's a lot of money in it and people
still turn to election year and so you know but is it is on a secular deathtrap.
And sure yeah all of cable is right. You know my kid doesn't know what time any
television show comes on because she gets all of it on demand and variety and right. You know Pod
but like in the short term will cable live sure those infrastructure that will create
that you know by the time it's gone. I will of already age out I'm a woman so I'm almost
done being allowed to be in front of a camera. Anyway.
Well that's you know it's a painful reality just that's just what's real Yeah I mean the one
good thing about this whole thing is I have been hungry for four years and so I might just start
having a sandwich and try to get a radio
show. I don't
know what I have found is a television very powerful
but yeah I'm not looking to be on T.V.
again in any kind of regular way right away the number one thing
that television killed for me was writing. I still write all the time and I have two books in the works
that have been just languishing
and I've got to earn a living somehow so below my professor real job.
I'll need to do some other kind of work and I
would love to have some kind of platform that allows me to bring and convene all those voices that
I cared so much about in our
land. But on cable T.V. I don't really want to work for somebody again right
now you know. Have you heard of
putting up I guess the same
for you know I need a drink look at it though right. I think I'd
agree writing is the like at the moment the number one thing I love. I'd love to be doing weight of writing in them
so I feel like election time is when cable news is most relevant Yes. How do
you see the like direction M S N B C is going. I did have a little bit of a heart
attack on Friday night
was when the Chicago protesters shut down the Trump. Rally.
It was the first time that I didn't just miss my team like in a general
way but had an
actual
like. I'm whining because I
was pissed that I didn't have a show of Saturday morning
because I just I was raging to my husband I was like Do you
know what we would have done with
this like. What do you think your show would have brought that Imus and he doesn't have
no we would have done the history of protest in Chicago. Like I
started doing it on Twitter and I just had to stop at the stop and
drank so because my immediate response to it was to go right in a block
right so my first thought was Oh my God we have to go back to the one thousand nine hundred races
riot and we have to start with how that happened. What it was who died in it and then we got to
come up to the one hundred sixty eight D.N.C. convention and sort of what the police response
is there and the fact that actually Democrats where it
happens and sort of the whole language about protesters as
violent and then we've got to then we have to come to this moment with the Trump rally and then
we have to sort of peel apart the whole language of violence
because this is like the mistake that's been made from Ferguson forward is the the
idea that property crime equals violence and confusion about what
constitutes violence and who's actually threatened and whose bodies
are constantly under surveillance under threat of violence and what does it mean to be young
and black and living on the South Side of Chicago and what
has the threat of violence look like there and how is Rahm Emanuel part of that like I just had a
whole the things just drawing itself in my head but then also what's been nice
is that over all these years.
Something like that starts to form up. But then I didn't have to do it alone so something like that would happen and then I would get on the
phone or I'd be sitting there and I go in and I sit down on the couch in the producer's room and
I'd start a dialogue and
then like you know. Tracy or Rachel or me or and we'd start doing it
together and then they would have offered something and then we would have had some kind of beautiful
wonderful thing and we would have
called clearly to call Jelani and we to call Phelim Asia and then
this thing would happen on T.V.. And we just right
and then that did happen.
What do you make of their trump coverage. I mean I watch. I don't watch the networks and
I mean. Again
you divorce you drop a self. Yeah it's like you know you know if that is the gram right
away
you really haven't even it. You know I don't I
think the joy is when doing a lot of my hours I'm you know and I the one thing I'll say is
I trust and love joy deeply thank God And she's
good to my team joint least treat what we do with
respect as a matter of example the weekend that everything was blowing up
and joy I was sitting in my
chair was because I was in my chair sitting in my chair at that
point and she did an interview that was the office we can get an interview with Ava
Duvernay who just mentioned my name. She said something like.
We're we're in Flint doing the flint.
Concert because we you know we have to hear from voices that are often on
her which is you know kind of what Melissa's show
does and they pull the interview.
And they didn't play
it
and Eva tweeted. You didn't know so they had
three taped
it so it would treated you like you know jump on my
interview and then M.S. is responsible. And they played it three o'clock in
the afternoon. You tweeted about your former
colleagues like Martin Bashir and Tori and said I'm sorry for and
ashamed of my earlier silence I gave into a culture of fear and Imus and B. C. you know
what do you mean by that so. Like I was just pointing out about that it was different
when someone's gone you never spoke to say their name again like you never existed. It
is unspoken rule is this like in like what the whole in a
the interview. How else does the culture of fear manifest itself
or you know you have to sign a none of. Those are when you leave if you
want a severance if you want to pay out and I just I wouldn't.
So no one ever talks about it later
because because you find a way or ability to talk about
it yeah I do think when people don't sign these wanted disclosure things it's very empowering to
everyone else. For example there's that engineer at Twitter who also did
not
sign a non-disclosure and he was saying all these frustrations he had about the
lack of diversity in upper management. I'm not sure if it necessarily always
leads
to more people speaking out especially because there's money
involved but I felt empowered I felt heard. Because what Joel
is saying basically about feeling expendable. I presume mostly I appear to
be challenging them
predictable but I'm a feminist so I'm
down like I have to really want to teach or for a tattoo that so challenging and
predictable like to do that I'll be a great way to Hell yeah like the title. My next
book only challenging the predictable chicks make history books.
Let me just be really clear the reason I wouldn't sign that N.D.A. was because I want to talk about him
is that. I wouldn't sign it because I'm
an academic even in my very first book before everyone thought about a T.V. show.
I wrote about race in the media the word BT is in my first book
writers Barbershops Bibles and BT It's what I write
about I could not have an agreement disclosed. I mean
that the closed off the possibility that I could write about anything
ever so I I wasn't leaving mad I was leaving hurt. Sure because I wanted my show to go
on but I wasn't mad and I was mean particular interested in saying that name or Phil's name
and like a really literally wasn't just next.
So I went to the bargaining table with them. With look and about
whatever but I'm not that mad. I really just couldn't go out with my. Thing is I'm just I'm not going to
find the nondisclosure I'm not confined in a spiritual not going to sign any of that because one thing I have
to be able to do is
write speak on it so we can talk about anything else you want talk about but that's one thing I can't and
they just came in me and then they came at me publicly and then they called me now and then they tried to play
me like I was crazy and what do you mean how did they come you will so. So then they just like when you can't have
this you can't have that
and let's be clear I mean I made more money than I've ever made in my life that I never made very much money because
I'm a working class girl and an academic and so for me never made much money but compared
to what many people make and make
their I make very little and so
I asked for some very simple things.
So when they decided to both
fight in a really nasty way. About
very tiny dollars tiny to them that are really huge to
me and when they went into the press in ways that
were quite clearly dishonest rather than just saying hey
severing it's all
good at that point I was like oh.
Not only do you want to end the show you also want to make it impossible for me to work anywhere else.
It's in your interests now to disparage
me doesn't make me dishonest in anything on thing it does
make me want to talk about things I would never otherwise talked about. Yeah I notice you tweeted like right at five
P.M.
when when you were legally allowed to
think that was an incredible treat storm I think a lot of people have dreamed of going out in a blaze
of glory like where you're just like oh here's Angela
Bassett setting fire to how I feel you know if.
Would you have done anything
differently.
I
mean I've done lots of things differently but they were all about the show not about
believing I think I said if I found the i've never watched the show. And so one of things I've been doing
lately is watching it. Oh my God I would totally have done this differently or that differently out
or written this segment differently.
So it's a little bit like you know deadlines focus us. So if I had known. We
only had just these four years.
I might have made some different choices if I had realized how just how short life of the show
was but I sent that email because I believed it in the end. Yeah I would have
put fill in vet and Andy Lack on blast about their choices because I
felt like they tried to disparage my character which I think
was unfair and dishonest.
I think I would still say every day that hosting that show for four years was
an incredible incredible incredible honor and like
like just the craziest thing that ever happened in my life that I never thought would happen and like
I still like I look at my two year old I think mansion not she will not believe in a mommy attitude
like my fourteen year old will be like yeah no really she had a T.V. show like it was
incredible that any of that ever happened. This whole process sounds incredibly
draining stressful. I can't even really imagine
especially with such a public attack of character I
guess or up a public discussion of
character as they might
say How do you take care of yourself. I mean not well right now like it's you
know we're in we're in the middle of it like it's I'm it is bad right
now and I recognize that and know that you know on the
other side of it will be better. Like you know my poor husband he just takes all.
All the crazy
because I just was yelling at him and he's like you know I'm just I'm just like sitting
here right now
but but he loves with additional. You know I feel he will fire me.
Yeah I mean at the moment like not well like you know not eating right I stayed up
way too late drinking coffee thank God I don't smoke
a B. my darned ass is like my garden got
together. Which was good because the weather was good.
Are you angry. Oh Sundays Yeah. Mostly I'm hard but yes there are moments when I'm angry.
There's moments I can feel like. I woke up the other day and I said to James I like this really
happened right like this like it happened. Like I
didn't even know this really happened and what did your
daughter know about everything eldest daughter. I think she feels sad
that like because she likes the
T.V. of like keeping her son from I mean she's even that impressed by
it but she's like everyone's was like that they're all like has a T.V. show where you're
eighteen right. I will say the single best response out of all of it.
This is OK second home on the weekends like you should like
if I have sleepovers. I like as you like
oh well so like I want the longer response was like Oh so now.
Now we have week in
fact somebody said some to James about oh well you know obviously that's Easter Sunday and
she was like oh my god Easter Christmas Easter and for years
like there there are these funny things that we had just kind of given up as a family that we're going to be able
to really discover hopefully So Easter and sleep overs
and I don't know how many kids complete over gives me the last check
but I really want the outlet I
don't want to do it
because I'm fine I'm not a civil rights case.
I'm not I don't want anybody to march on
nothing like I know that happens sometimes people I don't get to and therefore no
no I'm. Actually not a cause. Please don't make me.
There go to flit go to like the real horrible shit
happening the world. I am a relatively well off way over educated
black girl who had like a job that now has seven. I'm
fine but I do think is not fine. Is that the end of the
show means end of a space where a lot of voices
otherwise
can't be I do
think mass media has a responsibility to put those voices there. I don't care if
I'm not on there. I want those people there. What I do hope is an
outcry about nerd land
forces encourages emphasizes.
Pushes people who do have a platform to say wait a minute there
is room. Interest and an audience for this thing.
So whether I ever have another cable show is pretty irrelevant.
But like whether or not you ever see all those like slightly
quirky rumpled Why is this person on T.V. and yet to him that
was smart people on
air just call me out on hand my Rolodex please call my people please put them back out
there
you know. Please remember that it doesn't have to be like a says heterosexual white
boy talking about politics like you just
simply try a little tiny bit harder. Try.
That much harder to find somebody else to have the conversation. Not at
the basic
effort gray and now to try
and I'm very excited to
see where you go next and what happens next. Thank you for coming by the show again you
are a joy as usual where can folks find you in your work and
stuff so you know the main big stuff that I'm doing right now is really two projects is
the Angelica present and wake the vote. So you
know all of that is. My website which is Melissa Harris very dot com with no hyphen.
And you can follow me on Twitter at at and here is Perry also at
A.G.C. center is the center that I read and at week the voter my twenty two thousand.
When the phone. Thanks repeated I'm certain
notice
that we're going take a quick break and we'll be back
in
fact support for another
round comes from August a new kind of consulting company that's starting a revolution in the
way organizations work from helping leaders embrace change to creating a culture where expectations
are clear and purposeful which brings us to a game we call interviews from the
hell that is our
reality God. Yes I asked Tracy an incredibly
ridiculous job interview question that an actual business is actually
use in an interview and if I like a really stupid answer. She'll get made up job.
A I don't like it she's got a drank and yeah I feel ya you ready trays.
Yes a penguin walks through the door right now wearing a
sombrero only in my dreams.
What does he say and why is he here. OK So he was in in the first thing he says is
a know what you're thinkin that is cool I was adopted by Mexican.
Oh my
God.
Any
theory because we were hanging out later. You know what I'm
allowing your hired. Yeah
I
if you're passionate about revolutionizing the way companies operate and love to geek out about things like
the future of work and what makes teams awesome get in touch with August a consulting firm for the
twenty first century learn more at og dot co slash another round. That's
a G.E. that C.E.O. slash another.
Hey listeners of another round. This is John always Berman.
I don't like to speak in microphones. I like to produce crowd casts I'm one of
the producers of this show but I'm here because it's late Monday night have been Tracy have
gone home. We're trying to finish this episode for Tuesday morning and we wanted to make sure
that we gave them ascendancy a chance to
respond to some of the of the claims
that Melissa made on today's show. We just got a statement from our current bio the senior vice
president over at N.B.C.
Universal and here's what he has to say we're proud of the diverse
backgrounds of M S N B C's journalists hosts and analysts will gladly put that up against everyone
else in the news business. We're also proud that Imus and B.B.C. identified Melissa as unique
voice four years ago gave her a platform and stuck with
her and despite her glimpse of the contrary it absolutely would have
continued had she not sent a destructive e-mail the M H P show with the plain
and simple. It was not being cancelled or even altered and there was no consideration of
that were surprised and sad about how this ended but we wish her the
best and we did it again in a oh my goodness.
Who or what do you want around for it occurred to me that my little sister does not know
the ludicrous that I
know saying about Luke Chris has
turned into more of a like he shows up at a random award show what do you do
when a really nice to see that yeah.
Whereas you know the South really had a moment and Rav and I feel like he
was a big part of it not the
only part rare but you know and I kind of mixture.
Yeah I kind of miss more comedy in rap and ludicrous
is definitely one of those people. Yeah you men who let these hoes in my room.
Do what it's that include me let a little bit in
my room and just let him
then end up being made a lot of. Plans and he did and he had a lot of fun music
videos like he really I think. Enjoyed the comedy of rap. Yeah I think a lot
of people still do but just not it doesn't feel the same playful
way that he did it also his hair was just it when people read oh bull just
like the most beautiful Afro I've
ever made and it seemed natural had been out when he
was out. Yeah I'm sure you do want to say I mean mostly they're in cornrows but when he left
that it was that it was an ordeal. But also like a big
nappy as Halo they will not
be the
case but. I feel like.
People might forget that she's actually skilled Yeah he's of the really good rapper. So I recommend
you go back and listen to chicken and liquor the Southern Fried intro is a good place to
start is an intro.
But
yeah I'm just people who are you know just having more fun with it. Yeah.
Rappers the staff and also videos used to be fun. Yeah now they're all club.
We went outside.
Oh well no should start realizing you know. Anyway that's out at
the ludicrous ludicrous it was a go around. Thank you. Oh you've been around for
choice and bang around for Hulu Yes.
Is this inspired by Me app so frequently you know.
So if you're just joining us every
Then heaven went to China Dad I'm still jealous. I mean whatever I'm glad you got to
go wow you proud that a bottle of Eldorado
fifteen your room. I gave to Marie twenty three years because because naturally. Yeah you
know that's what one does.
And this is the first around that I had that was not book R.D.S. I think
that's terrifying because I just assumed that it was I'll fill in terrible in places like bad
college decisions like I will never want to go to a large order. Of rum and coke when
bourbon exists like what do you. Targeted make that their
tagline say it's like a bad college decision
but evidence ahead
first that robot you. Drew should get
emotional thinking locomotion when think about it it was so
good it tastes like
a proper whiskey. Yeah like you sweet him is the proper rum.
Yes but it takes like a proper whiskey to me members it has I should actually clarify has some
attributes of whiskey that I really really like colorful and it just looks bad as
when you're at a bar. Last a die flicker in like it's sweet in the
way that some whiskey thought. But not too sweet.
I don't know it's just great it was perfect I went out of the weekend and I bought my own bottle.
Yeah not cheap but I was like you know what I deserve this word and deserve it and
it's so good and now I know that there's good rum in the world
in it it's called I'm sure it really really is I have the best rum and coke in my entire life and
I was like oh I get it now. Good lord of
it also the best rum punch. I like woman email the people for the
rest of your life here just far
too
easy we made it a thank you turn around for existing Yes Really appreciate you thanks similar
to his peri first bad back in the MS That would have had to be just like a
crazy whirlwind man strength and
emotional intimacy. Yeah.
And thanks for stopping by on such short notice. I really need to shout out to the
pod squad.
Yeah I tried guys I was in my ear more do you got I wanted
to go to
a zero zero our producer Gen Y. Berman dances like Lisa Simpson.
That's the most adorable thing I've ever seen he was a dance like the. Blasted Jenna truly
does you think the thought of you don't want to latch this like as
was produced by Elena Kagan with editorial oversight from Jenna Weiss Berman with production help
from Julia Farland in May Kramer. Thank you to Paula Rue Este at Argo studio.
Thank you to our in-house band people performance musicality type parts
and you know when you start saying something you can't stop
the why are you going to mean I have is it all the way
through do you know what you
mean things that are super talented musician friends Jean Grey you can follow her on Twitter
edging breezy and I will of the arm I tell you we're going to go follow him on Twitter
at Donald that is the L.. Thank you
to put introduce the meat.
I really appreciate you Tracy I missed her face this week. She says I look like it's great it's beautiful.
Thank you I was at the news that we've been we've been getting such good feedback on the
newsletter the highest praise about things and I was like I hate these letters but I love it when another round this
letter
comes every day that So if you have Niaz grabs
our newsletter you should do it right now right very very me out a lot of buzz feed
that com slash another round slate newsletter the shell
that you give and just see you get cool pictures you get stuff to
read
that to laugh at also check out our other Buzz Feed podcast to tell show and an
explorer and if you want to reach us head us on The Buzz Twitter dot com
slash another round Facebook slash another round e-mail us another round of Buzz Feed dot com
and redefines if you like the
show if you know like you keep your bad opinions to yourself and will prey on
it for you not for us you know that
Michael is remember what you were saying about committing to this
and there's this quote from Michael Scott where he's like sometimes I'll start a sentence but
I have no idea or is going. I hope I find it a wonderful way to tell every
day my life.
It is so shots of Michael. Yeah. Take
imaging
that's not how it goes down to go no
go drink the water take your man climb out of that water is not take humans drink
the water doesn't matter. I'm worried that my brain is
like failing me anyway do all those things and also maybe
fasting yoga. I'm trying to like it so why stick with
that I've been enjoying it honestly really I think it's hard and boring.
This is true all spring cleaning get into
it had such a good spring clean Yeah I really need to do all that she should people say
about like you need a clean space to have a
clean but it really is the latter. I feel every day. So shout out
to cleaning in a forum
for anybody excited.
Man let's get out of here. Thanks for listening.
So
I feel really special if he was like you poking mind I
do you hope you manage to get
a program on drink and drinking tea.